					Puropose Extraction Tool

About:
	Every artifact is created to serve a specific purpose which can be called as its primary purpose. 
	The project aims at extracting primary purpose of artifacts from web corpus.
	Primary purpose can also be called as the utility of the artifact. 
	  
Introduction:
	We have implemented a system that extracts purpose information from web corpus using surface text patterns. 
	The system aims at extracting purpose information from sentences in which the purpose is explicitly mentioned. 
	We studied the data for patterns that indicate the presence of purpose information. 
	
	These patterns could be effectively represented using various methods. 
	Regular expressions are effective in pattern matching with strings. 	. 
	The combination of Regular Expression and POS tags is called a surface text pattern.
 
	These patterns are matched against the data extracted for a given artifact and its purpose is identified.

Our approach:

	The extraction of primary purpose of an artifact involves two stages:
		1.Information Retrieval 
		2.Purpose extraction

Information Retrieval:
	When an artifact is given as input, the definitions are extracted from selected web dictionaries. 
	We observed that most of the definitions for an artifact contained its purpose information.

        Several artifacts were given to a generic search engine and the first thousand results were stored. 
	Most of these results did not contain any purpose information. 
	Even when found the information was implicit in most of the cases. 
	We observed that when the information was explicit, it was limited to few sentences. 
	
	We selected domain independent online dictionaries so that the system will work for all domains. 

	Web Scraping techniques were used and scripts were developed for each of our selected online resources. 
	These scripts are independent of each other and run in a parallel environment. 
	These results are used in later stages of the system for purpose extraction.

Purpose Extraction: 	
	A surface text pattern is a combination of Regular expression and POS tags. 

	We initially formed a training corpus of artifacts. 
	This corpus was studied for the presence of information and patterns were MANUALLY formed. 
	These patterns are represented using surface text patterns. 
 
	Each of the patterns are matched against the entire corpus.
	These results were used to find the coverage and accuracy of that respective pattern. 
	
	Coverage is the percentage of artifacts for which we have result. 
	Accuracy is the percentage of correct results in total for a given pattern. 
	Similar patterns were grouped together and sorted according to their accuracies.   

	For example when 
		“Toothpaste is a paste for cleaning teeth“ 
			is matched against 
		“a DT \w*? NN for IN \w*? NN \w*? NN” 
		the result would be “cleaning teeth”.

	The extracted text data is tagged using a POS tagger. 
	Each sentence is now matched against all groups of patterns. 
	Once a match is found in a group we stop and move on to the next sentence in the corpus. 
	We can observe that processing of each of the sentences is independent of other. 
	So all these sentences are parsed in a parallel environment. 
	 
	We have also implemented a cache using simple caching techniques. 
	This cache would consist of the final results of all the pre-processed artifacts. 
	When we encounter an artifact that is already in the cache we just retrieve the result from cache. 

Results :
	Our entire corpus consists of a total of 110 artifacts. 
	We divided it into 
		training data 50 artifacts
		testing data  60 artifacts


	Coverage :  49/60	82%
	Accuracy :  45/49       92%

Future  Scope :   
	The system cannot locate all the answers in a given sentence. 
	The system is capable of capturing only one purpose term for a given sentence. 
	For example we can only capture WRITING from “Pencil is used for writing as well as drawing”.     

	Develop semi-supervised or unsupervised methods for generating the surface text patterns. 
	
	Future work includes identifying the associated participants of the action taking place 
	and assigning proper semantic roles to them.
